Cloud-native development is a way of creating and running applications
that fully utilize cloud computing for flexibility, scalability, and
resilience. It involves using a microservice architecture, where the
application is broken down into smaller, independent services that can
be developed, deployed, and scaled individually. This approach is
complemented by DevSecOps, which integrates security throughout the
app's lifecycle, ensuring it is considered from start to finish.
Containers are used to package these microservices with everything they
need to run, allowing for consistent performance across various
environments.

Cloud-native development offers several key benefits. Firstly, it
provides **scalability**, allowing applications to handle increased
workloads efficiently by scaling up or down based on demand. It also
enhances **resilience** by isolating faults in one microservice without
affecting the entire application. Additionally, cloud-native development
promotes **agility**, enabling rapid development, testing, and
deployment of new features. The use of containers ensures
**consistency** across different environments, making it easier to move
applications between development, testing, and production. Finally,
integrating DevSecOps practices ensures that security is embedded
throughout the development lifecycle, enhancing the overall **security**

Nova is an internal developer platform that focuses solely on Cloud
Native workloads.
