Every organization has a mountain of data, and Nova’s data platform
helps with that. Tools like **dbt** and **Dataform** enable consistent,
reproducible data transformations, paving the way for trustworthy data
management. Topping it off, **Google Looker** delivers interactive
dashboards and modern data exploration, helping teams unearth insights
that guide smarter business decisions.

## Artificial Intelligence

Nova integrates with AI solutions like Google Vertex to provide a
unified environment that simplifies the entire machine learning
lifecycle - from data ingestion and training to model deployment and
monitoring. Vertex AI’s comprehensive toolset includes automated data
labeling, hyperparameter tuning, and managed pipelines, all designed to
streamline and accelerate model development. By consolidating these
features into a single platform, teams can focus on building impactful
AI solutions without getting bogged down in complex infrastructure. The
result is faster experimentation, more consistent model performance, and
a smoother path to delivering AI-driven insights across the
organization.

## Big Data and analytical platforms

Nova empowers organizations to harness the full potential of their data
through an integrated ecosystem of DataOps and analytics tools. By
combining **dbt** for consistent data transformations, **AirByte** for
seamless data integration, **Cloud Composer** for orchestrating
pipelines, and analytics platforms like **BigQuery** and **Looker**,
teams can rapidly gain insights from massive datasets. This cohesive
approach simplifies end-to-end workflows - data ingestion,
transformation, and visualization all happen within a single, modern
environment - reducing complexity and accelerating time-to-value for
data-driven decisions.
