At the core of Nova’s success is a well-defined operating model that is
continuously refined to adapt to the ever-evolving dynamics within
Telenor and enhance the developer experience for all users. This model
is built on six key components: platform development, service delivery,
people and organization, technology and architecture, performance
management, and governance. Each component plays a vital role in driving
efficiency, scalability, and innovation, allowing developers to focus on
building and delivering cloud-native applications with ease.

### Platform Development

Platform development is the process of capturing demands, designing, and
building new or enhanced features and functionalities to ensure Nova
continuously evolves, delivering an optimized and seamless developer
experience. At its core, we treat Nova as a product that primarily draws
its demands from the developer communities it serves and the strategic
direction of Telenor.

#### The Community Means Everything

To effectively manage diverse user groups while staying aligned with
strategy, enhancing agility, and fostering a collaborative culture, we
prioritize regular synchronization with both executive leaders and the
developer communities we serve. This continuous dialogue ensures our
roadmap reflects strategic priorities while addressing real-world
developer needs.

To achieve this, we follow a quarterly cadence to capture and assess
demands using standardized evaluation criteria based on value and the
number of users requesting the same features or functionalities. This
structured approach facilitates clear prioritization, balancing business
objectives with community-driven innovation. Within the Nova team, we
actively engage with the community to validate priorities and ensure
transparency, fostering trust and collaboration.

Given the dynamic nature of the Nova platform and the fast-paced
environment we operate in, flexibility and scalability remain key. To
maintain this balance, we prioritize a mix of specialized
community-driven features (e.g., user dashboard modifications), platform
needs (e.g., bug fixes), and strategic initiatives (e.g., adding private
cloud functionalities). This ensures Nova continues to evolve in a way
that serves both long-term strategic objectives and the immediate needs
of the developer community.

#### Agile at the Core, Partners by Default

By leveraging DevSecOps practices, we drive continuous, incremental
improvements, enabling the user community to experience value early and
often through a continuous delivery approach. A well-maintained backlog
of prioritized demands is always accessible and regularly updated,
ensuring transparency and alignment with evolving priorities.

Cross-functional collaboration is key to making this work. Like any
successful partnership, it requires a balance of give and take -
because, in the end, it takes more than one to tango. Everyone has a
role to play in fostering collaboration and accountability.

Nova’s success is not built on a traditional vendor-client relationship
with users, but rather on a shared commitment to improvement at all
levels. Through regular feedback touchpoints, open communication, and a
culture of continuous refinement, we ensure that both the developer
community and leadership contribute to and benefit from Nova’s
evolution. In essence, Nova is nothing without its users - and in
return, the users gain immense value. It’s a true partnership, built on
trust, collaboration, and continuous innovation.

#### Waste No More, Components to Everyone

At Nova, every feature and functionality are designed with reusability
in mind. By leveraging scalable architecture, we create common
components that can be adopted across user groups without compromising
core functionality. This approach maximizes efficiency and scalability,
even if it means the solution might not be tailor-made for your
workflow. We encourage you to try it before passing judgment. If, after
testing an existing component, you see room for improvement, we want to
hear from you. Your feedback is invaluable in refining and enhancing our
offerings.

We take a data-driven approach to decision-making, consistently using
analytics to measure impact, satisfaction, and usage across user groups.
While we may not be perfect, our commitment is clear - we rely on real
data to prioritize improvements and ensure Nova continues to evolve in a
way that benefits everyone.

#### You Build It, You Run It

At Nova, we empower users to fully leverage the platform’s capabilities
and build whatever they need on top of it. Our goal is to enable
independence, innovation, and flexibility - allowing you to shape your
products on top of Nova to fit your unique requirements. All we ask in
return is regular feedback on your experience. Your insights help us
identify unmet needs and continuously improve the platform for everyone.

That said, there’s one principle we stand by: **You build it, you run
it.** Just as we take ownership of what we develop within the Nova team,
we expect the same from our users. This shared responsibility fosters a
culture of accountability, ensuring that everything built on Nova is
maintained and improved by those who know it best.

By working together in this way, we create a sustainable,
high-performing ecosystem where everyone benefits. Nova isn’t just a
platform - it’s a community, and its success is built on the
contributions and collaboration of every user.

#### Roadmaps, Guiding the Journey Forward

At Nova, transparency is at the heart of how we operate. Our roadmap is
open to all platform users, allowing them to participate in the
prioritization of new features and functionalities through a voting
process. By engaging the community, we ensure that Nova evolves based on
real user needs while staying aligned with strategic objectives.

To maintain a seamless and reliable platform, we continuously monitor
performance and address issues proactively. If a fix is needed, it can
be included in the roadmap prioritization process. However, in most
cases, we resolve issues long before they reach that stage, ensuring
stable and efficient experience for all users. One of the beauties with
DevSecOps.
