# Nova as a catalyst for organizational transformation

Nova brings together the essential pillars of modern cloud-native
success - GitOps-driven version control, baked-in security practices via
DevSecOps, developer self-service for speed and autonomy, and effortless
scalability - all wrapped in a developer experience that sparks joy. By
consolidating these capabilities into one cohesive platform, Nova
reduces friction across your entire software delivery pipeline. The
result? Rapid, reliable releases, stronger security postures, and
happier teams, ultimately positioning your organization for the next
level of agile and resilient cloud operations.

Embracing these cloud-native principles fundamentally transforms how
your organization approaches software development. By weaving GitOps,
DevSecOps, self-service, and scalability into your operational fabric,
you’re not just updating tools - you’re creating a culture of
collaboration, agility, and continuous improvement. Code moves swiftly
through the pipeline, backed by proactive security at every stage, while
teams gain the freedom to provision resources on demand. The net effect
is a dramatic boost in efficiency, shorter lead times, and happier
developers, all culminating in faster time-to-market and a stronger
foundation for long-term innovation.

While Nova brings these transformative features together, adopting such
a platform often requires revisiting and refining internal processes. In
practice, that might mean restructuring teams to fully embrace
DevSecOps, or updating version control and release management strategies
to align with Cloud Native principles and GitOps methodologies. The good
news? Organizations that lean into these changes typically see faster
time to market, improved security posture, and a more engaged
engineering culture.

**Key Takeaway**: Nova isn’t just a tool - it's a catalyst for
modernizing your operational mindset. By embedding GitOps, DevSecOps,
self-service capabilities, and a focus on developer experience at its
core, Nova promises both immediate impact and a long-term strategic
advantage. If you’re aiming for a future-proof cloud platform that
drives resilience and innovation, Nova is ready to guide your
organization toward that next step in its digital transformation
journey.

# Background

## History of Nova / Telenor Norge

Back in 2019, Telenor Norway began to investigate what could be achieved
with using a public cloud by hyperscalers like Microsoft Azure. Over
time we realized the benefits and grew slowly into the cloud, migrating
away from our custom on-premises solutions. Scalability, flexibility and
cost efficiency were just a few advantages that showed great value for
Telenor Norway in driving the cloud agenda forward.

After a while Nova began to take shape to what it is today. Nova set a
clear direction regarding what we wanted to achieve with using a public
cloud, and how we could achieve it.

We wanted to break out of bureaucracy processes and tollgate forums and
put the power in the hands of the product teams, so that the decisions
and responsibilities are made there. Now product team can onboard
resources within seconds instead of weeks or months. This was possible
because we prioritized focusing on automation, policies and guardrails
on the platform. We also took pride in putting a lot of focus on
security and privacy to ensure that our customers application and data
where in good hands, and that we drove the platform forward as a product
together with our customers.

One of our success factors was to keep the way forward clean of legacy
operations and solely focus on the future. Our strategy with cloud
native was thus one of the main drivers to push us in the right
direction. Our mission statement from the start have been; *We want to
help the product teams achieve as short as possible time to value, while
having high flexibility and autonomy, so that they can innovate and
experiment together with their customer to create success.* And this is
something that we work tirelessly on achieving every day.

## Nova as a service

import image from "./img/image.png";

<img src={image} alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

After seeing how Nova revolutionized our internal processes,
streamlining everything from CI/CD pipelines to data ops, we knew we
couldn’t keep it all to ourselves. By packaging Nova into a service
offering, we’re empowering other organizations to tap into the same
cloud-native, DevSecOps-driven magic that transformed our teams. It’s
not just about handing over a toolkit; it’s about sharing our expertise
and best practices so you can achieve accelerated innovation without
wading through the complexities of building everything from scratch or
making costly and time-consuming mistakes.

Now, we’re excited to bring the same efficiency and scalability beyond
our own walls. With **Nova as a Service**, you get a managed platform
designed to optimize multi-cloud environments, embed security in every
step on the way, and give your developers the autonomy they crave - no
endless configuration cycles or specialized infrastructure knowledge
required. Essentially, it’s Nova on a silver platter.

### Are You a Good Fit for Nova?

- **Cloud-Native Software**: Nova thrives in containerized,
  microservices architectures. If you’re still using monolithic apps,
  consider a modernization path first.

- **DevSecOps Principles**: Security is baked in from Day 1. Be prepared
  to embrace code reviews, automated testing, and continuous compliance
  monitoring.

- **Managed Offering, Minimal Customization**: Nova is designed to hit
  the ground running. While there’s room for tweaks and extensions,
  deep, specialized customizations might not align with our “move fast
  without breaking things” mantra.

- **Self Service**: Organizations that empower their teams to work
  autonomously are high-performing organizations, so be prepared for a
  culture of distributed trust, self-service and replacing costly manual
  approval processes with automation.

If this sounds like your kind of party, then Nova as a Service might
just be the perfect companion for your next phase of digital
transformation. And if it doesn’t? Let’s chat anyway - because we love
finding ways to help teams tap into the power of modern cloud-native
workflows.

### Advantages of using Nova-as-a-service

When you adopt Nova-as-a-Service, you gain immediate access to a
comprehensive, fully managed runtime environment for your cloud-native
applications and data. Nova provides a robust set of services spanning
application hosting, data analytics, and AI - offering a powerful
foundation for scaling and growing your business

Our 24/7 operational support is handled by experts who swiftly address
any platform issues, freeing your teams to focus on innovation rather
than maintenance.

Beyond operations, we also serve as a strategic partner: consult with us
on migration plans, architectural decisions, and best practices to
ensure a smooth Nova journey.

Nova offers proven golden paths for software and data development. With
a high focus on security, Nova provides a large number of out-of-the-box
services to streamline and optimize your development processes and cost
efficiency.

# Key domains of knowledge

There are some important knowledge and terminologies that are key to
understand the benefits when considering using Nova. These are
Microservices, DevSecOps, Cloud Native and internal developer platform.

## What are microservices

Microservice architecture is a design approach where an application is
composed of small, independent services, each responsible for a specific
function. These microservices communicate with each other using APIs,
enabling them to work together as a cohesive application. This
architecture promotes greater flexibility, as each microservice can be
developed, deployed, and scaled independently, allowing teams to work on
different parts of the application simultaneously. It also enhances
fault tolerance, as issues in one microservice do not affect the entire
system. By enabling continuous delivery and deployment, microservice
architecture supports faster development cycles and easier updates.
Overall, it provides a scalable, maintainable, and resilient framework
for building modern applications.

Nova is a state-of-the-art platform that can handle your microservices.

## What is GitOps

GitOps is an approach that manages both your application code and
infrastructure configurations via a single Git repository. This gives
you a “single source of truth” ensuring that every change, whether it’s
a new feature or a tweak to your infrastructure, goes through the same
version-controlled, automated process.

This gives a few great benefits:

1.  **Visibility & Traceability**: Every modification is tracked in Git.
    No more hunting for who changed what or running manual scripts at 2
    AM.

2.  **Faster Rollbacks**: If something breaks, it takes just a few
    clicks to revert to a previous working state.

3.  **Streamlined Collaboration**: Developers and operations teams work
    in one shared framework, reducing handoffs and friction.

4.  **Security by Design**: Using Git as the central hub means all
    changes are reviewed and approved before they ever touch production,
    improving auditability and compliance.

## What is DevSecOps?

DevOps is a methodology that combines software development (Dev) and IT
operations (Ops) to enable continuous delivery with high software
quality. It emphasizes on collaboration, automation, and integration to
streamline the software development lifecycle and reduce the time from
code creation to deployment. DevSecOps expands on DevOps by integrating
security practices into the process. It ensures that security is a
shared responsibility throughout the development lifecycle, embedding
automated security testing, continuous monitoring, and compliance checks
to create more secure and resilient applications without sacrificing
speed and agility.

To ensure that the time to value when creating software is as short as
possible, it is crucial that all the different parts of DevSecOps are
handled through automation. Nova ensures this.

## What is Cloud Native?

Cloud-native development is a way of creating and running applications
that fully utilize cloud computing for flexibility, scalability, and
resilience. It involves using a microservice architecture, where the
application is broken down into smaller, independent services that can
be developed, deployed, and scaled individually. This approach is
complemented by DevSecOps, which integrates security throughout the
app's lifecycle, ensuring it is considered from start to finish.
Containers are used to package these microservices with everything they
need to run, allowing for consistent performance across various
environments.

Cloud-native development offers several key benefits. Firstly, it
provides **scalability**, allowing applications to handle increased
workloads efficiently by scaling up or down based on demand. It also
enhances **resilience** by isolating faults in one microservice without
affecting the entire application. Additionally, cloud-native development
promotes **agility**, enabling rapid development, testing, and
deployment of new features. The use of containers ensures
**consistency** across different environments, making it easier to move
applications between development, testing, and production. Finally,
integrating DevSecOps practices ensures that security is embedded
throughout the development lifecycle, enhancing the overall **security**

Nova is an internal developer platform that focuses solely on Cloud
Native workloads.

## Internal developer platform (IDP)

An Internal Developer Platform (IDP) is a self-service environment that
equips developers with the tools and services necessary for efficient
and effective application and data development, testing, deployment, and
management. By automating and standardizing development workflows, an
IDP minimizes the complexity of infrastructure management, allowing
developers to concentrate on coding and feature delivery. Key components
of an IDP typically include version control systems, CI/CD pipelines,
infrastructure as code tools, monitoring and logging systems, and
integrated security practices. Together, these elements streamline
development processes, enhance collaboration, and boost productivity,
leading to faster and more reliable software delivery.

Nova is an Internal Developer Platform as a Service, focusing on
delivering services within the areas of Application, Data, Analytics and
AI.

> **<span class="smallcaps">Developing software and building digital
> capabilities is becoming ever more complex. By 2026, 80% of large
> software engineering organizations will establish platform engineering
> teams as internal providers of reusable services, components and tools
> for application delivery - up from 45% in 2022.</span>**
> [\[Gartner\]](https://www.gartner.com/en/infrastructure-and-it-operations-leaders/topics/platform-engineering)

# Self-Service

As organizations accelerate their cloud adoption, one of the biggest
challenges they face is **balancing agility with governance**.
Traditional IT service models create bottlenecks, slowing down
development teams and increasing operational overhead. The solution?
**Self-service based cloud platforms.**

By enabling developers, data scientists, and engineers to provision and
manage cloud resources **autonomously**, organizations can significantly
improve **developer productivity, operational efficiency, and security
posture**.

Nova as a platform is built around self-service, which accelerates
developers and helps build a culture of innovation and experimentation.
The efficacy of which has been clearly demonstrated by the examples in
Telenor Norway.

## Speed as a Competitive Advantage

In today’s fast-paced market, **time-to-value is everything**. When
development teams depend on centralized IT teams for infrastructure
provisioning, deployment pipelines, and cloud services, delays are
inevitable.

Our **self-service model** allows engineers to spin up resources
instantly within predefined guardrails, reducing the friction between
idea and execution.

This enables:

- Faster releases

- Reduced reliance on Ops teams

- Improved innovation velocity

## Operational Efficiency and Cost Savings

Manual processes not only slow down product teams but also introduce
inefficiencies that increase cloud costs. Self-service platforms with
**automated cost controls, quotas, and policies** help teams optimize
spending while reducing the burden on platform teams.

By implementing self-service:

- Engineers get what they need without delays

- Platform teams focus on platform reliability rather than ticket triage

- Helps organizations eliminate “shadow IT” by providing a compliant,
  easy-to-use alternative

## Enforcing Security and Compliance at Scale

Self-service does not mean an uncontrolled free-for-all. Modern
**platform engineering** enables self-service **within controlled
guardrails** to ensure security, compliance, and best practices.

Key mechanisms for secure self-service include:

- **Policy-as-Code:** Enforce security policies programmatically (e.g.,
  OPA/Gatekeeper).

- **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC):** Ensure the right level of access
  for different teams.

- **Pre-approved abstractions:** Allow teams to deploy standardized,
  secure resources.

With these controls in place, self-service enhances security **rather
than weakening it**.

## Developer Experience and Retention

Cloud-native engineers expect seamless, frictionless experiences. A poor
developer experience - full of manual approvals, restrictive processes,
and long wait times - leads to frustration and talent churn.

The Nova platform enables a well-designed self-service platform that
provides:

- Intuitive Developer User Interfaces for easy resource administration

- Flexible GitOps-based workflows for faster deployments

- **Built-in Observability** for monitoring and troubleshooting

Empowering engineers with great developer experience leads to **higher
job satisfaction, increased productivity, while reducing the risk of
burnout** *\[DORA (2024). Accelerate State of DevOps, p. 59\]*

# Security

Protecting data, applications, and infrastructure from cyber threats is
a top priority for any organization operating in the cloud. This is
built-in to Nova from the start with multiple layers of defense, for
example:

- **Identity & Access Management (IAM)** ensures that only authorized
  personnel can access critical resources.

- **Data Protection** leverages end-to-end encryption and secure storage
  for both data at rest and in transit.

- **Network Security** safeguards the flow of information across
  distributed systems, preventing unauthorized intrusions.

- **Compliance & Auditing** help maintain adherence to regulatory
  standards, backed by regular reviews and multi-factor authentication.

- **Monitoring & Incident Response** act as an early warning system for
  potential breaches, allowing swift containment and remediation.

### Telenor’s advantage

As a company managing critical infrastructure and sensitive business
operations, Telenor has honed a rigorous security posture. In addition
to providing industry standard best practices in security as seen above,
our experts have created Defendable Architecture - a comprehensive,
defense-in-depth framework that underpins everything we do. Nova is
built around these guidelines, amongst other things providing:

- **Strong Encryption** to protect data integrity and confidentiality.

- **Regular Disaster Recovery Exercises** ensuring resilience and
  readiness for worst-case scenarios.

- **Penetration Testing & SOC (Security Operations Center)** oversight
  for proactive threat detection and response.

- **Incident Handling Protocols** that enable quick, decisive action
  when needed.

By marrying industry-leading security practices with Telenor’s proven,
enterprise-grade safeguards, Nova delivers a robust environment for
running applications and managing data - so that you feel safe when you
run on Nova

# Privacy

When using managed services, privacy is paramount, and several key areas
must be addressed to ensure data protection. Data residency and
sovereignty are crucial, as they determine where data is stored and who
has jurisdiction over it. Strong encryption practices, both at rest and
in transit, are essential to safeguard sensitive information. Access
controls and identity management must be robust to prevent unauthorized
access. Compliance with relevant regulations, such as GDPR, is mandatory
to avoid legal repercussions. Transparency in data processing and clear
privacy policies are vital for building trust with users. Regular audits
and assessments help identify and mitigate privacy risks. Additionally,
implementing data minimization principles ensures that only necessary
data is collected and stored.

When you put your data into Nova, you are safe that this is handled in a
professional manner.

# Capabilities

import image3 from "./img/image3.png";

<img src={image3} alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

From container orchestration to data analytics, Nova provides a unified
foundation that harnesses the power of both Azure and Google Cloud. By
weaving together best-of-breed open-source projects to build leading
multi-cloud experiences as well as cloud-native services, Nova offers
everything a modern battle-tested enterprise needs to optimize delivery,
scalability, and security - all while delighting product teams with a
constant focus on developer experience.

## Self-Service Infrastructure, Containers and DataOps

Leverage **Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)** or **Google Kubernetes
Engine (GKE)** to run containerized applications at scale, without
wrestling with underlying complexities. Nova’s self-service approach,
powered by **Terraform** and **Nova Fabric** - our in-house self-service
operator, empowers teams to provision resources in minutes - spinning up
environments tailored to their project’s unique requirements. The data
platform enables powerful analysis of datasets, while refining them into
new data products. This autonomy accelerates innovation and cuts down
operational bottlenecks.

Nova’s self‑service engine, Fabric, is built on pure GitOps: every
request for an environment, database, or workload is configured as a
declarative manifest that live in Git. Purpose‑built Kubernetes
**operators**, following the operator pattern, continuously watch Git
repositories, compare the desired state to the actual cluster state, and
reconcile any drift in real time. Because all configuration is
**declarative**, changes are version‑controlled, auditable, and
instantly roll‑backable. Developers gain easy provisioning through a
clean Pull Request driven workflow, and platform teams retain firm
governance by reviewing code, not running scripts - delivering speed and
safety in equal measure.

## Unified DevOps Tooling for Collaboration

Nova supports streamlined code collaboration through **GitHub**, which
integrates effortlessly with **JFrog Artifactory** to manage artifacts
across the software development lifecycle. This unified DevSecOps
toolkit offers version control, code reviews, and package distribution
under one umbrella - ensuring consistency and fast feedback loops while
removing the traditional handoffs that slow down progress.

## CI/CD for continuous deployment

By harnessing GitHub and GitHub Actions, Nova ensures that code can flow
from commit to production in a streamlined, automated pipeline. Every
push triggers build, test, and deploy tasks, giving you instant feedback
loops and consistent releases - no more clunky handoffs or manual
guesswork. Plus, with everything in one place, teams can collaborate in
real time, spot potential issues sooner, and maintain a seamless
workflow that keeps innovation moving at top speed.

## Designed for Multi-Cloud Success

Nova extends across Azure and Google Cloud, giving you the freedom to
move workloads to the cloud best suited for the applications - without
chaining you to a single provider. By unifying the developer experience,
infrastructure as code, security frameworks, CI/CD pipelines, and
observability under one umbrella. Nova simplifies multi-cloud governance
and keeps operational overhead in check.

## Resilient Networking and Connectivity

With technologies like **Application Gateway**, **Istio Service Mesh**,
**Antrea**, **Express Route**, and **Cloud Interconnect**, Nova ensures
secure, high-performance networking from edge to core. These
technologies provide load balancing, traffic encryption, and
microservices observability - critical for organizations juggling
complex, distributed workloads across multiple cloud providers. The
result? Smoother deployments, optimized traffic flow, secure
communication and minimized latency.

## Streamlined DataOps & BI

Every organization has a mountain of data, and Nova’s data platform
helps with that. Tools like **dbt** and **Dataform** enable consistent,
reproducible data transformations, paving the way for trustworthy data
management. Topping it off, **Google Looker** delivers interactive
dashboards and modern data exploration, helping teams unearth insights
that guide smarter business decisions.

## Artificial Intelligence

Nova integrates with AI solutions like Google Vertex to provide a
unified environment that simplifies the entire machine learning
lifecycle - from data ingestion and training to model deployment and
monitoring. Vertex AI’s comprehensive toolset includes automated data
labeling, hyperparameter tuning, and managed pipelines, all designed to
streamline and accelerate model development. By consolidating these
features into a single platform, teams can focus on building impactful
AI solutions without getting bogged down in complex infrastructure. The
result is faster experimentation, more consistent model performance, and
a smoother path to delivering AI-driven insights across the
organization.

## Big Data and analytical platforms

Nova empowers organizations to harness the full potential of their data
through an integrated ecosystem of DataOps and analytics tools. By
combining **dbt** for consistent data transformations, **AirByte** for
seamless data integration, **Cloud Composer** for orchestrating
pipelines, and analytics platforms like **BigQuery** and **Looker**,
teams can rapidly gain insights from massive datasets. This cohesive
approach simplifies end-to-end workflows - data ingestion,
transformation, and visualization all happen within a single, modern
environment - reducing complexity and accelerating time-to-value for
data-driven decisions.

# Operational model

At the core of Nova’s success is a well-defined operating model that is
continuously refined to adapt to the ever-evolving dynamics within
Telenor and enhance the developer experience for all users. This model
is built on six key components: platform development, service delivery,
people and organization, technology and architecture, performance
management, and governance. Each component plays a vital role in driving
efficiency, scalability, and innovation, allowing developers to focus on
building and delivering cloud-native applications with ease.

### Platform Development

Platform development is the process of capturing demands, designing, and
building new or enhanced features and functionalities to ensure Nova
continuously evolves, delivering an optimized and seamless developer
experience. At its core, we treat Nova as a product that primarily draws
its demands from the developer communities it serves and the strategic
direction of Telenor.

#### The Community Means Everything

To effectively manage diverse user groups while staying aligned with
strategy, enhancing agility, and fostering a collaborative culture, we
prioritize regular synchronization with both executive leaders and the
developer communities we serve. This continuous dialogue ensures our
roadmap reflects strategic priorities while addressing real-world
developer needs.

To achieve this, we follow a quarterly cadence to capture and assess
demands using standardized evaluation criteria based on value and the
number of users requesting the same features or functionalities. This
structured approach facilitates clear prioritization, balancing business
objectives with community-driven innovation. Within the Nova team, we
actively engage with the community to validate priorities and ensure
transparency, fostering trust and collaboration.

Given the dynamic nature of the Nova platform and the fast-paced
environment we operate in, flexibility and scalability remain key. To
maintain this balance, we prioritize a mix of specialized
community-driven features (e.g., user dashboard modifications), platform
needs (e.g., bug fixes), and strategic initiatives (e.g., adding private
cloud functionalities). This ensures Nova continues to evolve in a way
that serves both long-term strategic objectives and the immediate needs
of the developer community.

#### Agile at the Core, Partners by Default

By leveraging DevSecOps practices, we drive continuous, incremental
improvements, enabling the user community to experience value early and
often through a continuous delivery approach. A well-maintained backlog
of prioritized demands is always accessible and regularly updated,
ensuring transparency and alignment with evolving priorities.

Cross-functional collaboration is key to making this work. Like any
successful partnership, it requires a balance of give and take -
because, in the end, it takes more than one to tango. Everyone has a
role to play in fostering collaboration and accountability.

Nova’s success is not built on a traditional vendor-client relationship
with users, but rather on a shared commitment to improvement at all
levels. Through regular feedback touchpoints, open communication, and a
culture of continuous refinement, we ensure that both the developer
community and leadership contribute to and benefit from Nova’s
evolution. In essence, Nova is nothing without its users - and in
return, the users gain immense value. It’s a true partnership, built on
trust, collaboration, and continuous innovation.

#### Waste No More, Components to Everyone

At Nova, every feature and functionality are designed with reusability
in mind. By leveraging scalable architecture, we create common
components that can be adopted across user groups without compromising
core functionality. This approach maximizes efficiency and scalability,
even if it means the solution might not be tailor-made for your
workflow. We encourage you to try it before passing judgment. If, after
testing an existing component, you see room for improvement, we want to
hear from you. Your feedback is invaluable in refining and enhancing our
offerings.

We take a data-driven approach to decision-making, consistently using
analytics to measure impact, satisfaction, and usage across user groups.
While we may not be perfect, our commitment is clear - we rely on real
data to prioritize improvements and ensure Nova continues to evolve in a
way that benefits everyone.

#### You Build It, You Run It

At Nova, we empower users to fully leverage the platform’s capabilities
and build whatever they need on top of it. Our goal is to enable
independence, innovation, and flexibility - allowing you to shape your
products on top of Nova to fit your unique requirements. All we ask in
return is regular feedback on your experience. Your insights help us
identify unmet needs and continuously improve the platform for everyone.

That said, there’s one principle we stand by: **You build it, you run
it.** Just as we take ownership of what we develop within the Nova team,
we expect the same from our users. This shared responsibility fosters a
culture of accountability, ensuring that everything built on Nova is
maintained and improved by those who know it best.

By working together in this way, we create a sustainable,
high-performing ecosystem where everyone benefits. Nova isn’t just a
platform - it’s a community, and its success is built on the
contributions and collaboration of every user.

#### Roadmaps, Guiding the Journey Forward

At Nova, transparency is at the heart of how we operate. Our roadmap is
open to all platform users, allowing them to participate in the
prioritization of new features and functionalities through a voting
process. By engaging the community, we ensure that Nova evolves based on
real user needs while staying aligned with strategic objectives.

To maintain a seamless and reliable platform, we continuously monitor
performance and address issues proactively. If a fix is needed, it can
be included in the roadmap prioritization process. However, in most
cases, we resolve issues long before they reach that stage, ensuring
stable and efficient experience for all users. One of the beauties with
DevSecOps.

###### Roadmap in practice: a structured and adaptive approach

As emphasized throughout, Nova should be viewed as a **product** - one
that continuously evolves to meet user needs. From a roadmap
perspective, activities are prioritized based on their potential to
deliver the greatest impact within the communities Nova serves. By
aligning roadmap decisions with **user feedback, business goals, and
platform requirements**, we ensure that Nova remains a **dynamic,
user-driven ecosystem** while staying aligned with Telenor’s broader
strategic objectives.

However, for Nova to remain relevant, scalable, and adaptable, the
roadmap must balance long-term strategic direction with agility. The
process follows an iterative cycle designed to capture evolving needs,
prioritize effectively, and ensure continuous improvement while avoiding
unnecessary bottlenecks

Once the strategy and objectives are in place - often spanning multiple
years - the roadmap serves as a guiding artifact. It provides a
structured plan for achieving strategic objectives, steering Telenor
from its current state to a desired future state. Unlike a static
document, it is a living framework, built iteratively through continuous
feedback, prioritization, and adaptive execution.

### Service Delivery 

#####  Introduction

In today’s fast-paced digital landscape, businesses must continuously
evolve their services to stay competitive. Achieving this requires a
service delivery model that is not only scalable and efficient but also
flexible enough to accommodate rapid change and innovation.

At Nova, we believe that **efficiency, scalability, and flexibility**
must work in unison to deliver high-quality services. This philosophy is
embedded in our **Platform as a Service (PaaS) model**, which empowers
development teams with the tools and infrastructure they need to build,
deploy, and manage cloud-native applications seamlessly. By providing a
robust and modular platform, we remove operational burdens, allowing
teams to focus on **value creation, innovation, and customer impact.**

To put it simply and use an analogy. Think of Nova’s role like running a
**pizzeria.** The goal is to serve delicious pizzas (great applications)
that customers love. But making great pizzas isn’t just about choosing
the right toppings - it requires a well-functioning kitchen.

Nova acts as the **kitchen team and infrastructure** of this pizzeria.
Nova ensures:

- The **dough** is always perfect (a solid infrastructure foundation).

- The **oven** is running at the right temperature (efficient and secure
  cloud and automation).

- The **ingredients** are fresh and available (ready-to-use development
  tools and services).

This way, the chefs - our development teams - can **focus on what really
matters: crafting the perfect pizza with the best toppings** (building
innovative software that customers love). They don’t have to worry about
**fixing the oven, making the dough from scratch, or restocking
ingredients** - Nova handles all that.

Just like a well-run pizzeria ensures fast, consistent, and delicious
pizzas, Nova ensures that development teams can build, scale, and
innovate efficiently - without getting bogged down by operational
complexities.

With Nova, the developers don’t have to worry about the kitchen setup -
they can focus on creating software experiences that delight their
customers, just like a great pizzeria focuses on making the best pizzas.

##### Efficiency: Streamlining Operations for Maximum Impact

Digital enterprises often struggle with operational inefficiencies that
slow down innovation. Redundant processes, resource waste, and
fragmented workflows create bottlenecks, preventing teams from
responding to market demands effectively.

Nova addresses these challenges by embedding efficiency at the core of
our service delivery model:

- **Eliminating Waste:** Our platform optimizes resource utilization -
  whether time, money, or computing power - by automating manual
  processes and reducing unnecessary operational overhead.

- **Automation & Workflow Optimization:** We provide built-in automation
  and streamlined workflows that allow teams to quickly adapt to their
  needs, reducing delays and human errors.

- **Infrastructure Efficiency:** By leveraging cloud-native
  architectures, we ensure that teams can **do more with less**, scaling
  their operations without excessive resource consumption.

- **Innovation-Driven Development**: By adopting efficient development
  and maintenance practices, we free up engineers to focus on innovation
  rather than routine maintenance tasks.

With these principles in place, Nova enables organizations to build and
deploy applications faster, reduce costs, and enhance overall
productivity.

##### Scalability: Preparing for Growth Without Limits

Growth should never come at the cost of performance. Many organizations
struggle to scale their platforms effectively, leading to performance
bottlenecks, architectural inefficiencies, and costly infrastructure
overhauls.

Nova ensures that scalability is an inherent feature of our service
delivery approach:

- **Growth Without Performance Trade-offs:** Our platforms are designed
  to support increasing demands without compromising stability,
  responsiveness, or security.

- **Continuous Evolution:** Instead of requiring teams to rebuild their
  platforms from scratch, Nova ensures that our infrastructure evolves
  over time **through modular architecture and continuous integration,**
  allowing for seamless upgrades and improvements.

- **Dynamic Resource Allocation:** Our **scalable architecture** enables
  dynamic resource allocation based on demand, ensuring teams always
  have the capacity they need, when they need it.

- **Consistent Performance Across Business Units:** As usage grows
  across multiple teams, our service model ensures that **performance
  remains stable and predictable,** preventing slowdowns or outages.

By embedding scalability into our core platform, Nova enables businesses
to grow without the constraints of traditional IT infrastructure.

##### Flexibility: Adapting to Change and Driving Innovation

Modern enterprises must be **agile and adaptable** to succeed in an
environment where market conditions, technologies, and customer needs
are constantly shifting. Rigid service delivery models hinder
experimentation, slow down decision-making, and stifle innovation.

Nova’s service delivery model fosters flexibility in several ways:

- **Customized Consumption Models**: Teams can access platform services
  through self-service APIs, managed services, or tailored
  configurations depending on their needs.

- **Future-Proofing with Emerging Technologies:** Our platform is
  designed to **evolve continuously**, integrating the latest
  advancements in cloud computing, AI, and DevSecOps without disrupting
  existing workflows.

- **Innovation Without Constraints:** Nova allows teams to **experiment
  and iterate without breaking the core platform,** fostering a culture
  of rapid experimentation and agile development.

- **Self-Service Empowerment:** We minimize dependencies on central
  approvals by enabling teams to access platform capabilities **through
  self-service**, reducing bottlenecks and accelerating time-to-market.

This level of flexibility empowers organizations to innovate faster,
respond to market changes dynamically, and deploy new features with
confidence.

#####  Platform as a Service (PaaS): The Engine of Scalable Service Delivery

At the heart of Nova’s approach lies our **Platform as a Service (PaaS)
model**, which provides development teams with a shared, **scalable
foundation** for seamless application development, deployment, and
operations.

Key aspects of the Nova PaaS include:

- **Foundational Infrastructure:** The platform **manages core
  services**, allowing product teams to focus on specific business needs
  rather than reinventing foundational elements.

- **API-Driven Access:** Clear, well-defined APIs allow teams to
  **configure and deploy solutions independently**, reducing reliance on
  central engineering teams.

- Centralized Management with Customization: While platform consistency
  and security are managed centrally, product teams retain the
  flexibility to customize configurations based on unique requirements.

- **Multi-Tenant & Modular Architecture**: Nova’s multi-tenant
  architecture enables resource sharing while maintaining security and
  isolation between teams as needed.

- **Service Catalogue:** A clearly defined service catalogue outlines
  available platform services, including infrastructure, automation
  tools, and CI/CD capabilities.

- **DevSecOps Enablement:** Nova integrates DevSecOps best practices,
  including automation pipelines, observability, and security
  integration to streamline collaboration and enhance software delivery.

- **Continuous Improvement:** By engaging with the community, Nova
  fosters an ecosystem an ecosystem where platform teams, business
  units, and product teams collaborate seamlessly to drive success.

import image4 from "./img/image4.png";

<img src={image4} alt="A screenshot of a computer AI-generated content may be incorrect." />

Nova’s approach to service delivery redefines how modern enterprises
build, deploy, and scale cloud-native applications. By integrating
**efficiency, scalability, and flexibility** into our **Platform as a
Service (PaaS) model**, we enable businesses to drive innovation,
optimize operations, and future-proof their digital capabilities rather
than managing infrastructure.

Through **a robust governance framework, community-driven engagement,
and continuous improvement**, Nova ensures that its platform remains
aligned with business needs–empowering teams to deliver high-quality
services **at speed and scale.**

With Nova, organizations can move beyond traditional constraints and
embrace a next-generation approach to digital transformation–one that is
agile, intelligent, and built for the future.

# Testimonials

## Benedicte, Tech Lead - Telenor Norway

In the past our team used on-premise infrastructure provided by an
external partner. Which was based on outdated standards lacking in
everything from features, to developer experience and to our ability to
self-serve.

With Nova our team gets access to all the great offerings of modern
Cloud Native infrastructure. In addition to comfortable levels of
abstraction, if we wish to use them. Our team is now able to add and
remove infrastructure as we see fit through git-ops. Everything from
kubernetes pods, to http ingresses, to databases.

Since we work directly with services which are extremely tedious to test
in a test environment, often involving actual physical phones combined
with telecom infrastructure, we are able to go live with new features
much quicker if we can test in production. Nova makes it a breeze to
deploy, meaning a bug in production can be fixed super quick. Allowing
us to work directly in production in a safe way.

Nova has already solved every typical use case for running applications
on the web. And the Nova team has shown a genuine interest to meet the
needs of the teams. I personally see no point in wasting time running
any other infrastructure when such a good offering already exists within
Telenor.

Nova allows the team to focus on fixing the actual applications, and not
have to worry about a node going down.

## Rico Tijsen, Tech Lead - NoA Ignite Denmark

Working on establishing the development and production infrastructures
for the new Telenor.dk and CBB.dk websites, the Nova team has been a key
resource helping us on our way. Their pedagogic approach has a positive
effect on building infrastructure as code at scale, always ready to
answer our questions on Slack, while leveraging GitHub to have full
governance on the deployed resources and access rights.

## Morten Ryum, Architect - Telenor Norway

I think the platform is run by very skilled and professional people. The
Nova platform is developing in a very positive direction with
self-service, GitHub and a much better collaboration with the
developers. There is a lot you have to learn as a developer to use the
Nova platform effectively, but once you know it, it is a very powerful
platform with a lot of potential. [Telenor.no](http://telenor.no/) run
stably and safely while building and deploying to prod many times every
day. It happens that we have deployed around 100 times in a day, and
that would not have been possible without a very efficient CI/CD
pipeline and the observability stack.

A relatively recent success story I can share is that thanks to support
from the Nova team, we were able to set up Azure Front Door on
[telenor.no](http://telenor.no/) and [telenor.com](http://telenor.com/),
which has already saved us from a lot of downtime, simplified the
architecture, provided a significant performance improvement, and
ensured that we are far more resilient to both DDoS and sudden surge in
organic traffic. This is an example of good advice and an excellent
solution from those who have the expertise.

# Key numbers

Some key numbers from Telenor Norway’s Nova journey

- We see a clear trend in on those teams that runs on Nova vs. those who
  don’t. Teams that run their workloads on Nova, deploys 10x more than
  other. Ensuring time to value is rapidly decreased from before.

- We decrease the probability for a risk to happen, with state of the
  art security tooling. In the last 12 months we have had 36 DDoS
  attacks, all have been prevented. Also, we have acted upon 755
  different security alerts (low to critical in severity), to ensure
  that we are on top of things.

- Run time cost have been reduced by over 50% when running in Nova vs.
  legacy operations (this incl. FTE cost)

# Summary

Nova stands out as a powerful, integrated platform tailor-made for
modern enterprises aiming to excel in multi-cloud environments - whether
it’s Azure, Google Cloud, or a strategic combination of both. By weaving
together proven DevSecOps and DataOps practices with top-tier tooling,
container orchestration, security, and analytics, Nova helps
organizations accelerate innovation while maintaining tight governance
and control. GitOps pipelines become frictionless, security is embedded
at every layer (thanks to DevSecOps), and data-driven insights are
unlocked through robust DataOps workflows.

For forward-thinking organizations seeking to future-proof their
technology strategy, Nova’s approach offers a streamlined and scalable
path to rolling out new features, adopting AI, and optimizing
infrastructure. Pair that with developer-friendly self-service
capabilities, and you’ve got a recipe for boosting both productivity and
morale across your teams. If you’re ready for a platform that doesn’t
just keep pace with technology trends, but propels you ahead of them,
then Nova is ready for you.

Let’s redefine what’s possible - together.
