Protecting data, applications, and infrastructure from cyber threats is
a top priority for any organization operating in the cloud. This is
built-in to Nova from the start with multiple layers of defense, for
example:

- **Identity & Access Management (IAM)** ensures that only authorized
  personnel can access critical resources.

- **Data Protection** leverages end-to-end encryption and secure storage
  for both data at rest and in transit.

- **Network Security** safeguards the flow of information across
  distributed systems, preventing unauthorized intrusions.

- **Compliance & Auditing** help maintain adherence to regulatory
  standards, backed by regular reviews and multi-factor authentication.

- **Monitoring & Incident Response** act as an early warning system for
  potential breaches, allowing swift containment and remediation.

### Telenor’s advantage

As a company managing critical infrastructure and sensitive business
operations, Telenor has honed a rigorous security posture. In addition
to providing industry standard best practices in security as seen above,
our experts have created Defendable Architecture - a comprehensive,
defense-in-depth framework that underpins everything we do. Nova is
built around these guidelines, amongst other things providing:

- **Strong Encryption** to protect data integrity and confidentiality.

- **Regular Disaster Recovery Exercises** ensuring resilience and
  readiness for worst-case scenarios.

- **Penetration Testing & SOC (Security Operations Center)** oversight
  for proactive threat detection and response.

- **Incident Handling Protocols** that enable quick, decisive action
  when needed.

By marrying industry-leading security practices with Telenor’s proven,
enterprise-grade safeguards, Nova delivers a robust environment for
running applications and managing data - so that you feel safe when you
run on Nova

# Privacy

When using managed services, privacy is paramount, and several key areas
must be addressed to ensure data protection. Data residency and
sovereignty are crucial, as they determine where data is stored and who
has jurisdiction over it. Strong encryption practices, both at rest and
in transit, are essential to safeguard sensitive information. Access
controls and identity management must be robust to prevent unauthorized
access. Compliance with relevant regulations, such as GDPR, is mandatory
to avoid legal repercussions. Transparency in data processing and clear
privacy policies are vital for building trust with users. Regular audits
and assessments help identify and mitigate privacy risks. Additionally,
implementing data minimization principles ensures that only necessary
data is collected and stored.

When you put your data into Nova, you are safe that this is handled in a
professional manner.
