As organizations accelerate their cloud adoption, one of the biggest
challenges they face is **balancing agility with governance**.
Traditional IT service models create bottlenecks, slowing down
development teams and increasing operational overhead. The solution?
**Self-service based cloud platforms.**

By enabling developers, data scientists, and engineers to provision and
manage cloud resources **autonomously**, organizations can significantly
improve **developer productivity, operational efficiency, and security
posture**.

Nova as a platform is built around self-service, which accelerates
developers and helps build a culture of innovation and experimentation.
The efficacy of which has been clearly demonstrated by the examples in
Telenor Norway.

## Speed as a Competitive Advantage

In today’s fast-paced market, **time-to-value is everything**. When
development teams depend on centralized IT teams for infrastructure
provisioning, deployment pipelines, and cloud services, delays are
inevitable.

Our **self-service model** allows engineers to spin up resources
instantly within predefined guardrails, reducing the friction between
idea and execution.

This enables:

- Faster releases

- Reduced reliance on Ops teams

- Improved innovation velocity

## Operational Efficiency and Cost Savings

Manual processes not only slow down product teams but also introduce
inefficiencies that increase cloud costs. Self-service platforms with
**automated cost controls, quotas, and policies** help teams optimize
spending while reducing the burden on platform teams.

By implementing self-service:

- Engineers get what they need without delays

- Platform teams focus on platform reliability rather than ticket triage

- Helps organizations eliminate “shadow IT” by providing a compliant,
  easy-to-use alternative

## Enforcing Security and Compliance at Scale

Self-service does not mean an uncontrolled free-for-all. Modern
**platform engineering** enables self-service **within controlled
guardrails** to ensure security, compliance, and best practices.

Key mechanisms for secure self-service include:

- **Policy-as-Code:** Enforce security policies programmatically (e.g.,
  OPA/Gatekeeper).

- **Role-Based Access Control (RBAC):** Ensure the right level of access
  for different teams.

- **Pre-approved abstractions:** Allow teams to deploy standardized,
  secure resources.

With these controls in place, self-service enhances security **rather
than weakening it**.

## Developer Experience and Retention

Cloud-native engineers expect seamless, frictionless experiences. A poor
developer experience - full of manual approvals, restrictive processes,
and long wait times - leads to frustration and talent churn.

The Nova platform enables a well-designed self-service platform that
provides:

- Intuitive Developer User Interfaces for easy resource administration

- Flexible GitOps-based workflows for faster deployments

- **Built-in Observability** for monitoring and troubleshooting

Empowering engineers with great developer experience leads to **higher
job satisfaction, increased productivity, while reducing the risk of
burnout** *\[DORA (2024). Accelerate State of DevOps, p. 59\]*
